docs: updates to dashboards descriptions and grafana tasks (#5591)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/modules/metrics/proc-metrics-kafka-deploy-options.adoc

[id='proc-metrics-kafka-deploy-options-{context}']
= Deploying Prometheus metrics configuration

[role="_abstract"]
Deploy Prometheus metrics configuration to use Prometheus with Strimzi.

You can use your own configuration or Strimzi's xref:ref-metrics-prometheus-metrics-config-{context}[example custom resource configuration files].

* `kafka-metrics.yaml`
* `kafka-connect-metrics.yaml`
* `kafka-mirror-maker-2-metrics.yaml`
* `kafka-bridge-metrics.yaml`
* `kafka-cruise-control-metrics.yaml`

The example configuration files have relabeling rules and the configuration required to enable Prometheus metrics.
Prometheus scrapes metrics from target HTTP endpoints.
The example files are a good way to try Prometheus with Strimzi.

To apply the relabeling rules and metrics configuration, do one of the following:

* Copy the example configuration to your own custom resource definition
* Deploy the custom resource with the metrics configuration

If you want to include Kafka Exporter metrics, add `kafkaExporter` configuration to your `Kafka` resource.

> IMPORTANT: For Kafka Exporter to be able to provide additional Kafka metrics, you also need the Prometheus metrics configuration for Kafka.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IMPORTANT: Kafka Exporter provides only additional metrics related to consumer lag and consumer offsets.
For regular Kafka metrics, you have to configure the Prometheus metrics in xref:proc-metrics-kafka-deploy-options-{context}[Kafka brokers].
```

This procedure shows how to deploy Prometheus metrics configuration in the `Kafka` resource.
The process is the same when using the example files for other resources.

.Procedure

* Deploy the example custom resource with the Prometheus configuration.
+
For example, for each `Kafka` resource, you would apply the `kafka-metrics.yaml` file.
+
.Deploying the example configuration
[source,shell,subs="+attributes"]
----
kubectl apply -f kafka-metrics.yaml
----
+

> Alternatively, you can copy the example configuration in `kafka-metrics.yaml` to your own `Kafka` resource definition.

Reviewer: This needs to explain what should be copied. (The ConfigMaps + the `metricsConfig` fields)

Author: Okay. I've added the config examples too. We also have a link to the `metricsConfig` API reference in this section.

Author: As we've added these details, I've also described the different approach with Kafka Bridge as a note.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/47596553/135052728-31679270-c9f3-4729-880a-4f20332b0c23.png)

+
.Copying the example configuration
[source,shell,subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
kubectl edit kafka _<kafka-configuration-file>_
----
+

> To deploy Kafka Exporter, add `kafkaExporter` configuration to the `Kafka` resource.

Reviewer: Since we say that _The process is the same when using the example files for other resources._ ... should we mention here that Kafka Exporter is only in the `Kafka` CR?

Author: Okay. Added: _`kafkaExporter` configuration is only specified in the `Kafka` resource._

[id='proc-metrics-kafka-deploy-options-{context}']
= Deploying Prometheus metrics configuration

[role="_abstract"]
Deploy Prometheus metrics configuration to use Prometheus with Strimzi.

You can use your own configuration or Strimzi's xref:ref-metrics-prometheus-metrics-config-{context}[example custom resource configuration files].

* `kafka-metrics.yaml`
* `kafka-connect-metrics.yaml`
* `kafka-mirror-maker-2-metrics.yaml`
* `kafka-bridge-metrics.yaml`
* `kafka-cruise-control-metrics.yaml`

The example configuration files have relabeling rules and the configuration required to enable Prometheus metrics.
Prometheus scrapes metrics from target HTTP endpoints.
The example files are a good way to try Prometheus with Strimzi.

To apply the relabeling rules and metrics configuration, do one of the following:

> * Copy the example configuration to your own custom resource definition

Reviewer: `custom resource definition` can be easily confused with `CustomResoruceDefinition` a.k.a. CRD. So we should try to avoid it.

```suggestion
* Copy the example configuration to your own custom resources
```
